Public cloud computing can be defined as running and accessing different computing services on externally hosted and maintained hardware. The hardware is situated in data centers located across the world to provide availability and redundancy for clients.

The core cloud services offered by AWS include 
- Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS)
- Platform as a Service (PaaS)
- Software as a Service (SaaS).

AWS Regions are the cluster of AWS Data Centers worldwide.
AWS Edge location is a smaller setup of servers closer to where a customer will access the data from and is used for static content.

AWS Wavelength is an infrastructure component ideal for mobile edge computing apps. Wavelength Zones are AWS infrastructure installations that integrate AWS computing and storage services into the 5G communications service providers (CSPs) networks. This allows application traffic from 5G devices to contact Wavelength Zone application servers without leaving the telecommunications network. This would avoid the delay if application traffic traveled many internet hops to reach its destination.

 AWS Pricing Calculator
 
 AWS Pricing Calculator to estimate the monthly and yearly costs for running services on their platform.

 AWS Deployment Method:

 The AWS Management Console is a web-based management interface used to create and manage resources and services on the AWS Cloud Platform. 

 Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2) service is used to create different virtual machines which can be used for a specific function and is referred to as Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS).

The Relational Database Service (RDS) is used to create different types of databases and is known as Platform as a Service (PaaS).

To create a scalable cloud storage solution, the S3 service can be used.

The AWS Management Console is a graphical web interface that is used to create and manage services.
The root account is used to create additional users and manage their access.
Users are created using the Identity Access Management (IAM) Dashboard.
The IAM Dashboard is also used to delegate permissions to users to access or create resources.

Amazon Web Services (AWS) provides different Core services which enable customers to create scalable cloud solutions.

The following are some of the Core AWS services:

Amazon S3
Amazon Elastic Block Store
Amazon S3 Glacier
AWS Snowball
Amazon Elastic File System
AWS Storage Gateway
AWS Managed Databases
Amazon RDS
Amazon DynamoDB
Amazon Redshift


Security Group
Launch Template
Auto Scaling Group
Testing web server instances

nm tools
A network ACL is a software firewall that controls the flow of traffic in and out of the subnets in a VPC.


A security group is a software firewall that controls the inbound and outbound flow of traffic for your instance.

Security groups are stateful. If a request is sent from an instance, the response traffic for that request is allowed to flow in regardless of inbound security group rules. A response to allowed inbound traffic is allowed to flow out, regardless of outbound rules.
